.TH pydance 6 "June 2nd, 2003"
.SH NAME
pydance \- a dancing simulator game
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBpydance\fR [\fB\-\-filename \fIfilename \fR[ \fB\-\-mode\fI mode \fB\-\-difficulty\fI difficulty\fR ] ]
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \-\-help,\ \-h
Display a brief summary of command line options.
.IP \-\-version,\ \-v
Display the version of pydance (and features found, e.g. Psyco).
.IP \-\-filename\, \-f
Load and play a single file, then quit. By default, this is in
SINGLE (4 panel) mode, on BASIC difficulty.
.IP \-\-mode,\ \-m
Use a particular mode (e.g. VERSUS, 6PANEL, DMX). This only has an effect
when you also use \fB\-\-filename\fR.
.IP \-\-difficulty,\ \-d
Use a particular difficulty (e.g. TRICK, SMANIAC). This only has an effect
when you also use \fB\-\-filename\fR.
.SH DESCRIPTION
pydance is much like the popular arcade game "Dance Dance Revolution", in
which you stand on a mat on the floor, with 4 buttons pointing forward,
backwards, left, and right. Arrows scroll across the screen, and you must
step on the arrows on the mat when they reach the top. These steps
happen in time with music in the background, causing a rough approximation
of dancing.
.PP
However, pydance also plays more than DDR - it can simulate games like
Technomotion, Pop'n'Stage, Pump It Up, Para Para Paradise, and Dance ManiaX
(also called Dance Freaks).a
.PP
pydance supports most of the features of these games, such as background
and banner images for each song, multiple difficulty levels, freeze
arrows (arrows you have to remain standing on for a length of time), BPM
changes and stops, lyric displays, and so on. pydance also allows you to
use a real DDR mat if you have a Playstation to PC joystick adapter supported
by the ddrmat kernel module for Linux (which is a modified version of the
gamecon kernel module), or a Playstation to USB joystick adapter and the USB
joystick driver, for any OS. If you lack a mat, you can play on the
keyboard, but it's much less fun.
.PP
You can also make your own step files to new music, in pydance's \fB.dance\fR
format. \fIdance-spec.txt\fR included with pydance documents this format.
pydance can also read the popular Windows \fB.dwi\fR and \fB.sm\fR formats.
.SH USAGE
The first player's arrows and settings are controlled by the I, J, ,, and L
keys, and the second player's by the arrow keys. Enter starts a song or
activates a menu item.
.PP
pydance is documented more completely in the \fIREADME.html\fR file included
with it.
.SH FILES
.IP /usr/share/games/pydance/songs,\ /usr/local/share/games/pydance/songs,\ ~/.pydance/songs
By default, pydance will look in these directories for your songs, step files,
and other game data. You can configure this with the \fBsongdir\fR
option in your pydance.cfg file.
.IP
Note that for DWI files, you will need to put everything (the music file,
lyric file, background, and banner) in its own separate directory, and
that directory inside \fIanother\fR subdirectory in the \fIsongs\fR
folder. This is a limitation of the DWI format; it uses its path name
and files in the same directory, rather than specifying things in the
file itself like .dance files do.
.IP /usr/share/games/pydance/courses,\ /usr/local/share/games/pydance/courses,\ ~/.pydance/courses
Similar to above, but for course files. You can use \fBcoursedir\fR to
override this.
.IP /etc/pydance.cfg,\ ~/.pydance/pydance.cfg
pydance configuration files. The settings in your local one override
the system-wide settings.
.IP ~/.pydance/records
Your top scores for each song. This is a pickled Python file. It can be
safely deleted to reset your scores.
.IP ~/.pydance/input.cfg
Your input settings. This is a pickled Python file. It can be safely
deleted to reset your input configuration.
.IP /usr/share/games/pydance
Various data needed by pydance, such as background music and Python modules.
.SH AUTHORS
Brendan Becker <tgz@orotech.net>, Joe Wreschnig <piman@debian.org>, and Pavel Krivitsky <pavel@krivitsky.name>, with help from many others.
.PP
Many of the other dancing games mentioned here are trademarks of their
respective owners.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBfindbpm\fR(1),
README included with pydance,
manual.html included with pydance,
dance-spec.txt included with pydance.
